# FAQ/Disclaimer for YouTube Video

## The Video

Can be found [here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kUD_7p7uEV0).

## Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)

1. Why are there white stripes on the key/lock?

   I did not want to show the particular brand of the lock because I don't want anyone to think that this is a weakness of a particular brand or that this lock brand is bad/insecure. This type of vulnerability affects pretty much all manufacturers. In fact, the manufacturer/lock type picked here is particularly hard due to it's high precision and very small tolerances combined with very shallow steps in the key.

2. What lock type/brand is this?

   See the answer to question #1. I am well aware that experts will still recognize the brand/type, but I would still ask you politely to not post it here as it isn't relevant.

3. What software did you use to model the key?

   The software used is AutoKey3D (https://github.com/choller/autokey3d) written by me. Note that this software requires some knowledge about locks to get the desired results and it is still very experimental. If you find bugs or run into problems, feel free to ask me or open an issue in GitHub.

3. How did the software magically know about the key parameters (length, cut depths, etc)?

   I added the parameters of the system to the software, but didn't show this in the video because there is not a lot to see. In general, the parameters required a per lock system, not per profile, so you will have to add this only once for a particular target system, even if you encounter multiple/different profiles. Values required include length of the key, stop and pin positions (distances), cut angle, depth of deepest cut and thickness of one cut level. You can either reverse engineer the values or look them up in a commercial database.

4. What 3D printer/resin did you use in the video?

   The 3D printer is a Wanhao D7 and the resin is Monocure 3D Rapid Clear. I have to say that the printer performs really well given its low price, kudos to the engineers who built it. For accuracy of the prints, the resin is also highly important. I had bad results with the standard resin because it was too sticky. The Monocure resin is much more liquid and therefore flows much better off the model while printing, making the print more accurate.

5. What is the post processing equipment you use in the video?

   The ultrasonic cleaner is an iTronics IR8000EU for about 30 Euros. The UV curing device is a highly specialized, super expensi... just kidding, it is a standard UV device with 36W power used to harden nail polish. I don't even know the brand, but it was about 19 Euros.

6. How long do you perform each post processing step?

   I clean the keys for 3 minutes and then (after letting them dry a bit) put them into the UV curer for about 6-8 minutes at least before trying them out.

7. Did the key really work on first try?

   Yes and no. For this particular lock, I discovered several problems along the way (one software bug, a wrong value in the database and problems with the resin during printing). While I correctly decoded the key from the picture, the resulting keys didn't have the correct measurements (3D model had wrong measurements compared to the calculated measurements according to the key code and printed key did not match the 3D model exactly). After resolving these problems, the key worked as expected. As an attacker, you could have figured out all of these errors without even getting near the original lock to try out a key. If in doubt, you could also print multiple keys and try them out, hoping that one works.

8. Is this really new? I've seen 3D printed keys before.

   3D printed keys are not new. Other researchers and myself already published related work about duplicating keys as well as printing bump keys. In many cases that I know, people used professional printing services to order their models that were printed on industrial-scale 3D printers that deliver much higher accuracy than many home devices. In contrast, this video *only* uses home technology, no expensive devices or software were used. Assuming you already have a laptop, you can perform the same attack for way less than 1000 Euros. Also, in contrast to some other videos available, the lock used here has a complex profile and low tolerances, making this lock particularly hard to duplicate with home equipment.

9. So is it really all that easy? Do I need to be afraid of technology?

   No and no. Performing these types of attacks requires not just buying some machines, but rather also a lot of knowledge. I spent years on physical security, lock picking and research in this area in order to be able to do this. Nevertheless, people should be aware that keys are a type of secret. You should never give other people the opportunity to measure, scan or photograph your sensitive keys.

10. Why did you do this?

    Because it is fun and researching such things excites me.

11. What music did you use?

    * Kevin MacLeod - Trouble
    * Kevin MacLeod - Run Amok
    * Kevin MacLeod - Super Circus
    * Kevin MacLeod - Fig Leaf Times Two
    * Kevin MacLeod - Merry Go

    Thanks Kevin for providing such great music for making videos, and thanks again for doing so for free!

## Disclaimer / Warnings:

1. The lock I opened in this video is my own. Tampering with other peoples' locks without their permission is illegal, so please don't do that.

2. Do not attempt the closed lock stunt at the end of the video without knowing *exactly* what you are doing. There is a high risk of breaking the key in the lock, rendering it unusable and locking yourself in/out. If that happens and you miss the right tools, you are in a bad spot. I was well prepared to open the lock by other means, be it removing the broken key, manipulating the lock or even breaking it apart. In general, I recommend doing this type of research on unmounted locks that you have on your desk (be ready to disassemble them as well).

3. In the video, I use an ultrasonic cleaner with IPA (alcohol). Do *not* put alcohol inside an ultrasonic cleaner directly! The liquid in the cleaner in my video is water, the alcohol remains in the sealed bag. This is to prevent situations where the cleaner fills with explosive gases and explosions are bad, okay? :D
